Porn addiction and procrastination are
things that so many people struggle with
today. And in this coaching session that
happened during one of our live Q&As's,
I work with a man who's struggling with
exactly this. And we touch the
underlying shame beneath it and what the
thing is trying to not feel and what
happens when you feel the thing
underneath the shame and how it frees
you. Um, how do I stop procrastinating
and how do I stop watching porn? I've
been trying it for my whole life. Um,
I've tried it really, really hard. Yeah.
Um, and I feel so much shame. I've
gotten better at not feeling as much
shame for it, but um, I still feel feel
shame. And I'm so good at making myself
unhappy. other people or other
circumstances in my life don't have um
as much impact on my happiness as I have
on myself because I I don't act the way
I want to act in so many circumstances
of my life.
Yeah. If all that story stopped, what
would happen to your procrastination and
your Let's just do procrastination for a
moment.
That whole story. Yeah. That that story
you just expressed, it goes on in your
head all the time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If
I could just if I could just stop that
story. You couldn't Not that you It's
bad. But if I just like clicked my
fingers and that story stopped,
it would probably help. Yeah. I would
probably not think about it as much and
I would I would be more
natural and I would pursue my goals
better and uh I would probably just it
would help I think. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So
let's let's let's try the question again
without the story without the story
inside of you. So just how if that story
couldn't exist inside of you what would
you ask me?
Um, I've actually already written down a
different question which might be the
one then. Um,
no, don't do that because then you're
going into your head. Just like live
without the story for a moment. I know
it's a challenge. Live without the story
for a moment and just
tell me what the question is.
How do I find my potential? So feel your
heart and your
gut and and yeah there you go. Now
what's the question without the story?
The question
um how do I become myself?
Yeah, lovely
question. Right. So the pain of this
procrastination and the pain of the
pornography is that it's not who you
are. No. Yeah. Yeah. Let's just sit with
that reality for a
minute. You know, it's not who you
are. You turn it into a story of I'm
bad. You turn into a story of I'm not
enough. You turn it into a story of I'm
responsible for my own
happiness. But in its basic core is is
you just know it's not who you
are. So, let's just sit with that story
for a second. Actually, let's see what
it's like to say it out loud. It's We'll
just stick with procrastination, but
procrastination isn't who I am. And just
say it like three or four times and tell
me what happens.
Procrastination isn't what I am.
Procrastination is not what I am.
Procrastination is No, no convincing.
You know it.
Yeah, I know. Procrastination is not
what I am. All right. Yeah, there you
go.
Yeah, your head is trying to figure
something out. Let it [__] just
dissolve. Okay. Just try to feel then.
Yeah. Don't try to feel. You are
feeling. It's
happening. Whether you like it or not.
Okay.
Yeah.
What what are
you
essentially? What are you that has never
changed and never
never been hurt, never been guilted,
never been touched by all these stories?
What is that part of you?
Well, the question of who I am, I've
I've um asked that question a lot. Um
but I've also read about it a lot. I
don't know if the answer is really from
myself or from the book I'm reading, but
I would say the answer is I'm awareness.
Um, and I have moments. That might be
your answer. That might be your answer.
But that wasn't your whole body answer.
Let's go back to your whole body.
Out of the head, out of the story, into
the heart, into the
gut. What are you essentially?
Just Just Yeah. Just feel it. Don't I
don't need a goddamn answer. Just feel
what you are essentially.
Okay. Yeah. I feel
like I'm a lot and I can give a lot and
I can do a lot. I know that story. I
just want you to feel it. I don't need
an answer. What are you? Yeah. You're
still thinking. Go back to the heart. Go
back to the gut.
This is all your procrastination. All
your pornography is to avoid this what
you
are not the intellectual idea of
awareness but the felt sense of what you
are
whole body why why would I want to avoid
it through procrastination because I
think it's a I think something very
positive I I don't think that's
something I need to avoid or escape
from. Well, show me
then. Show me. Do it for just 30
seconds. Be with what you are
essentially in your whole body for 30
seconds and let's find out what makes
you avoid it
without talking, I guess. Okay. Don't
care if you talk.
That's That's not what was happening.
Whole body. What are Yeah, there you go.
What are
Yeah. What are you
essentially? You're not letting it all
in. See if what it's like to let that
whole a lotness
in. There's a little bit of avoiding
through like transing out there.
I'm I'm also thinking and I'm Yeah, I
mean it's it's a super hard question. I
could feel stuff.
So that's the best part is that's your
so your first line of defense against
what you are essentially is to
think and then the thinking gets so
[__] rattled and shamefilled that you
need to avoid the sheet
thinking and you do that with
procrastination.
doom scrolling,
pornography, blah blah blah blah.
There's probably a dozen others.
So, what you are essentially feels good
but somehow overwhelming. Moves
to thinking, moves to self-critical
thinking, moves to avoidance of
self-critical thinking.
Okay. Interesting. Yeah. So, back to I'm
giving I'm giving your poor brain a
story so it can shut the [__] up for a
minute and we can get back to the real
work, which is like what are you
essentially? There's your thinking
again. Okay. The first avoidance.
Well, that's hard to do. Yeah. So, do
you do you want what makes you avoid
Wait, you said if it feels so good, what
makes you avoid it? That's the question.
What's the answer?
I don't know. I'm I'm lost right now.
I'm really lost. Great. Yeah. Good.
When you say you're lost, it means your
brain can't keep up. And that's good
because your brain is the brakes.
Okay. Yeah.
So, it's just this really simple thing.
It's what are you? You've always been
that. And when you feel it, it's a lot.
That's the That's the words you used.
You said, "Oh, this is a lot. I'm a
lot." Mhm. It's big. Yeah. Yeah. Feel
that bigness for a
minute. There you
go. Take a deep breath in. Like fully
feel it.
Not trying to feel it. It's just there.
It's the na it's your nature.
Yeah. It's it's it's more a knowing.
When I when I think about who I am, then
I also think about all the stuff I can
do. I'm very athletic. I have cool
skills. That's what I think about. And
that it creates a feeling which is nice.
A feeling of a lot or potential or when
I think about how I am to other people
which I think is very good.
Um yeah, but it's Yeah, it's still um a
knowing. Yeah. Still very intellectual.
Yeah. But just notice one of the things
that's happening even when you're just a
little bit more in your whole body. The
story changes from what's wrong with you
to that you're a good person, that
you're good to people, that you have
skills, that like immediately just a
little more presence in your body and
that story changes.
[Music]
Yeah, I have had So, we're going to go
even deeper. We're going to even let go
of that story for a minute.
Oh, you did it. But then then you
stopped doing it.
Oh, did you see that?
Yeah. Right there.
Yeah. How much meditation have you done
for a couple months? Um, every evening
for like 10 minutes, then I stopped
again. Yesterday I did it again. It was
really nice. I I will do it again every
day, I think. Yeah. Okay. I'm not
suggesting it. I'm just wondering what
with how what your history is with it.
Yeah. So, back to what you are.
Essentially, it's never changed. A skill
comes and goes.
Being nice to somebody comes and
goes, but there's something that's never
come and gone. It's always been
there. Don't Don't try to figure it out.
Feel it.
I felt it before. Maybe I cannot feel it
now. Oh, you can feel it. It's what you
are. It's never left. How could you?
How? Where is it going to go?
Yeah. I mean, could it be love?
Let's find
out.
Yeah. So, that
that's So, when you were a kid, tell me
how your love was
dismissed. Tell me how this like very
sweet boy that I see in front of me was
told that they weren't allowed, that
their their love couldn't be seen and
felt.
I think my parents were very strict with
with me when I was I don't know in a
restaurant and I was loud. They um were
quieting me and uh told me to not do
crazy stuff maybe or to not be unpolite
to people like they're kind of strict
and I I was never able to get angry at
them. When I was when I got angry at my
mom or my dad I was shut down so
extremely. Yeah. And I I was just yelled
at and put in the car and left there.
And uh Yeah. And and when you were
coaching, I I forgot her name. I'm
sorry. I think Laura.
Yeah, I got you. Just But out of the
story just for a minute, just that like
that little boy that was like this
exuberant
love was shut down is just what I heard
right there. Yeah. And now you're
shutting it down every
time I ask you the question, "What are
you?"
essentially the same way your parents
did. They shush you with your voice, try
to figure it out, try to control you,
try to manage you, put you in the car.
I can feel stuff. Yeah. Are you ask me a
question as well or No, I'm I'm I just
want you to stay in that place that you
were feeling.
Yeah, I feel compassion. Yeah. Yeah.
That's because you're a sweetheart. So,
what are you essentially?
Uh love. Yeah. I don't want you to
answer. I want you to feel.
Okay. Yeah.
Yeah.
So now I'm going to ask you to use your
head for just a minute. Let's say you
get really good at letting this in that
you you really get good at just being
with what you are essentially. What
happens to your procrastination? What
happens to your porn use?
It goes away. Yeah. So you've been
focused on how do I stop
procrastinating? How do I stop using
porn? It that never works or very seldom
works. If you want it to go away, stay
focused on being with what you are
essentially all of
it. So, let's do it one more time. Just
like what is it to not try to figure it
out? Just be with what you are.
Yeah, there you go. They can't. If
you're trying, then you're not doing it
right. And that's what you just
discovered. You like went to try and
you're like, "No." And there's this
relaxation and there you are. It's
always there.
You are giving me difficult tasks.
That's u interesting.
How is this difficult?
Uh I think yeah usually what's more
difficult what's more difficult to be
with what you are essentially or to not
be
well I can't not be I can only um escape
from it or distract myself from it.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Which is more
difficult to resist it or not resist it?
Oh yeah. Resistance is is hard. Yeah. Oh
it hurts. I don't want to do it anymore.
Yeah. Yeah, I know. Doesn't make sense.
Yeah, it doesn't make sense. Oh,
yeah. So, the story is that it's hard,
but in reality, it's far easier to not
resist it.
[Music]
Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. You're
welcome. And thanks a lot for your time.
It's so cool that you do this stuff and
that you that you give so much for free.
Oh, that that really
um Oh, now I can feel the love, man.
Really? Yeah, I can feel love for you.
Yeah, thank you. A lot of it. I I listen
to your podcast so much every time I
drive. And thank you. Thank you. Thank
you for seeing me. Like I the the the
thing that's seeing me right now, I I
see it in you.
Yeah. The thing that you're the thing
you're saying about me right now, I see
it in you. That's what I mean to say.
Yeah. You couldn't see that about
me if it wasn't true in you.
Mhm.
Thank you, man. Thank you. Yeah. Thank
you.